---
layout: post
title:  "Curry On: A Retrospective"
date:   2016-07-20
---

This year's [Curry On](http://curry-on.org/2016/) conference in Rome ended last
night, and it was certainly worth the trip. While I saw a fair amount of
presentations throughout the conference, I'd like to briefly touch upon a few of
my favorite ones in this blog post.

[The Racket
Manifesto](http://curry-on.org/2016/sessions/the-racket-manifesto.html) by
[Matthias Felleisen](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/matthias/) was a good reminder
that I need to spend more time with [Racket](http://racket-lang.org/). It is a
deeply flexible language, and it is clear that countless hours have been spent
refining it. Both [Peter O'Hearn's](http://www0.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/p.ohearn/)
talk [Move Fast to Fix More
Things](http://curry-on.org/2016/sessions/move-fast-to-fix-more-things.html),
and [Dave Herman](https://twitter.com/littlecalculist)'s
[talk](http://curry-on.org/2016/sessions/building-an-open-source-research-lab.html)
thoroughly examined their transitions from academia to industry, and how
Facebook, and Mozilla have benefited from research with
[Infer](http://fbinfer.com/), and [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/en-US/),
respectively. It is projects like these that demonstrate how cooperation between
the industry, and academia can truly lead to advancements in our field.

I also found [Crista Lopes](https://twitter.com/cristalopes)'s presentation on
[Exercises in Programming
Style](http://curry-on.org/2016/sessions/exercises-in-programming-style.html)
extremely entertaining. In the presentation, she essentially went through a
large range of different programming styles from imperative to
continuation-passing style, and it seemed somewhat reminiscent of [The Evolution
of a Haskell
Programmer](https://www.willamette.edu/~fruehr/haskell/evolution.html) by Fritz
Ruehr from Willamette University which was also a joy to read.

[Rascal: the Swiss Army Knife of Meta
Programming](http://curry-on.org/2016/sessions/rascal-the-swiss-army-knife-of-metaprogramming.html)
by [Tijs van der Storm](https://twitter.com/tvdstorm) was an interesting
presentation too. Although, I found the syntax to be a bit peculiar, it was
obvious that [Rascal](http://www.rascal-mpl.org/) truly enables non-trivial
metaprogramming tasks to be solved almost effortlessly. The source-to-source
Java transformation in the presentation impressed me, and certainly made me
interested in the language. Finally, [Cristina
Cifuentes](https://labs.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=labs:bio:0:21)'s presentation
[Are We Ready for Secure
Languages?](http://curry-on.org/2016/sessions/are-we-ready-for-secure-languages.html)
greatly illustrated how we should start thinking security into our languages
rather than adding security measures as an afterthought.

In addition to the numerous marvelous talks, I also found the conference to be
extremely sympathetic. It was quite clear that the organizers had put an effort
into encouraging diversity which I greatly appreciated, and I think the
conference succeeded tremendously in enabling a conversation between academia,
and the industry. Finally, it did not hurt that this was the venue:

![Pontifical Gregorian University](/images/pontificia-universitas-gregoriana.jpg)

Next year, Curry On will be held in Barcelona, and I hope I'll be able to attend
again.
